# CNC_multipurpose_machine Multipurpose CNC milling machine for wood and
# soft metal
# 
HardWare:
This machine will be primary for wood and plasic milling, but can in
special cases be used for soft metals like aluminium. Special care has
to be taken in theese cases, since there is no flood cooling, and
thereby only dry milling capabilities. There will be an air cooling/chip
cleaning system with pressurized air as medium. This machine will have 6
cnc-axes and some special alignment axes for special operations. X, Y
and Z is the normal cartesian axes for spindle movement. A, B the Euler
axises for table pitch and roll. C is normally yaw, but roll around
Z-axis is seldom used since this is the rotating tool. Therefore, in
this case, it is a special feed-through axis where long materials or
setups with multiple workpieces can be fed beyond the normal Y-axis.
This can also be used when a long milling operation has to be done in
the Y-axis without the need for special Y accuracy. This mode will in
some cases require the material to have some unworkable endstock in both
ends to satisfy the feeding mechanism. It will also, in some cases where
high X accuracy is required, have to be equipped with special-made soft
jaws for the holding mechanism. It will require special care regarding
the feed mechanism clamping capabilities. A and B axes can normally not
be used when the C axis is used, but the roll action (B-axis) can be
implementet in the feeding mechanism. This will be a >360 degree angle
movement along the length of the material (Y-axis), thus creating a
lathe like functionality with the milling tool (Z-axis) as the lathe
X-axis (Tool in/out axis). Special alignment and reference marks has to
be created on the material to obtain some better accuracy in the Y-axis.
More Y-axis accuracy can also be obtained if special clamping tools are used.
